Ibexa Notifications (#3090)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/users/notification_channels.md

         - The [`PermissionResolver::getCurrentUserReference()` method](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Core-Repository-PermissionResolver.html#method_getCurrentUserReference) is returning objects implementing this `UserReference` interface.

So, for example, to send a notification, you often as this kind of combo:

```php hl_lines="8-11"
use App\Notifications\MyNotification; // Extends Symfony\Component\Notifier\Notification\Notification
use Ibexa\Contracts\Core\Repository\PermissionResolver;
use Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Service\NotificationServiceInterface;
use Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Value\Notification\SymfonyNotificationAdapter;
use Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Value\Recipent\SymfonyRecipientAdapter;
use Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Value\Recipent\UserRecipient;
//…
$this->notificationService->send(
    new SymfonyNotificationAdapter(new MyNotification($subject)),
    [new SymfonyRecipientAdapter(new UserRecipient($this->permissionResolver->getCurrentUserReference()))],
);
//…
```

### `CommandExecuted` example

The following example is a command that sends a notification to users on several channels simultaneously.

> it could be a scheduled task, a cronjob, warning users about its final result. 

Author: ```suggestion
it could be a scheduled task, a cronjob, warning users about its final result.
```

First, a `CommandExecuted` notification type is created.
It is supported by two channels for the example but could be extended to more.
As constructor arguments, an instance takes the command itself, the exit code of the run, and caught exceptions.

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/user_management/notifications/src/Notifications/CommandExecuted.php') =]]
```

The channels subscribing to this notification are set in `config/packages/notifications.yaml`:

``` yaml hl_lines="17-20"
[[= include_file('code_samples/user_management/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 4, 24) =]]
```

The example command sends a `CommandExecuted` notification at the end of what could be a regular execution.
It randomly succeeds or fails to show how the notification can be used to communicate different execution results.
It could be declared as a service to set the list of recipients' logins `$recipientLogins` from a configuration file.

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/user_management/notifications/src/Command/NotificationSenderCommand.php') =]]
```

> If you execute this command, it will sometimes succeed, sometimes fails.

Author: ```suggestion
If you execute this command, it sometimes succeeds, sometimes fails.
```

![Ibexa notification example](notification-ibexa.png "Command notifications shown in the `ibexa` channel, the back office user notification menu")

### `ControllerFeedback` example

The following example shows a custom notification sent by a controller and displayed as a flash message on the corresponding page in the browser.

> The following `ControllerFeedback` notification type is just a class extending the base:

Author: ```suggestion
The following `ControllerFeedback` notification type is a class only extending the base:
```

This class already has a default style.

Subscribe to this new notification type in `config/packages/notifications.yaml`:

- in the `admin_group` scope with the `browser` channel
- For Commerce edition, in the `storefront_group` scope with the `browser` channel

``` yaml hl_lines="13-15 43-45"
[[= include_file('code_samples/user_management/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 4, 6) =]]        # …
[[= include_file('code_samples/user_management/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 25, 34) =]][[= include_file('code_samples/user_management/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 35, 65) =]][[= include_file('code_samples/user_management/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 66) =]]
```

!!! note "Subscriptions for `storefront_group`"

    Notice that when introducing subscriptions configuration for `storefront_group` scope coming with Commerce edition,
    several subscriptions had to be copy-pasted into this SiteAccess group to have the same subscriptions as before
    when it was configured only by the `default` scope.

>     

Author: ```suggestion

```

    For example, the subscriptions for the `site` SiteAccess belonging this group
    can be checked with the following command during the configuration:

>     

Author: ```suggestion

```

    ```bash
    php bin/console ibexa:debug:config notifications.subscriptions --siteaccess=site
    ```

Reaching this controller in the back office (at `/admin/notification-sender`) triggers the notification as a flash message in the bottom-right corner:

![Browser back office notification example](notification-browser-admin.png "Controller message displayed as a flash message in the browser")

> Reaching the controller in the default siteaccess on Commerce edition (at `/notification-sender`) also triggers the notification as a flash message in the bottom-right corner:

Author: ```suggestion
Reaching the controller in the default SiteAccess on Commerce edition (at `/notification-sender`) also triggers the notification as a flash message in the bottom-right corner:
```

![Browser storefront notification example](notification-browser-storefront.png "Controller message displayed as a flash message in the browser")

## Create a custom channel

> A channel is a service implementing `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Channel\ChannelInterface`, and tagged `notifier.channel` alongside a `channel` shortname.

Author: ```suggestion
A channel is a service implementing `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Channel\ChannelInterface`, and tagged `notifier.channel` alongside a `channel` identifier.
```

| Channel   | Notification interface         | <span title="The channel needs the notification to implement its interface.">⚠</span> |
|:----------|:-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `chat`    | `ChatNotificationInterface`    |                                                                                       |
| `desktop` | `DesktopNotificationInterface` |                                                                                       |
| `email`   | `EmailNotificationInterface`   | &#10004;                                                                              |
| `ibexa`   | `SystemNotificationInterface`  | &#10004;                                                                              |
| `push`    | `PushNotificationInterface`    |                                                                                       |
| `sms`     | `SmsNotificationInterface`     | &#10004;                                                                              |

> Note that the [`SystemNotificationInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Notifications-SystemNotification-SystemNotificationInterface.html) is not part of Symfony and has its own namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
The [`SystemNotificationInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Notifications-SystemNotification-SystemNotificationInterface.html) is not part of Symfony and has its own namespace.
```

These notifications don't have a predefined channel like the ones from the first two bundles.
The channels you subscribe to notifications with determine how the user receives the information.
Several channels are provided, and you can create your own.

The service implementing the [`Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Service\NotificationServiceInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Notifications-Service-NotificationServiceInterface.html)
sends notifications extending the `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Notification\Notification`.
Other services can have this notification service injected and send their own typed notifications.
Channel services implementing `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Channel\ChannelInterface` subscribe to a selection of notification types
and take actions, such as conveying notifications to users through various transports.

## Subscribe to notifications

Some events send notifications you can subscribe to with one or more channels.

> Available notifications:

Author: ```suggestion
### Available notifications
```

* [`Ibexa\Contracts\OrderManagement\Notification\OrderStatusChange`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-OrderManagement-Notification-OrderStatusChange.html)
* [`Ibexa\Contracts\Payment\Notification\PaymentStatusChange`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Payment-Notification-PaymentStatusChange.html)
* [`Ibexa\Contracts\Shipping\Notification\ShipmentStatusChange`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Shipping-Notification-ShipmentStatusChange.html)
* [`Ibexa\Contracts\User\Notification\UserInvitation`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-User-Notification-UserInvitation.html)
* [`Ibexa\Contracts\User\Notification\UserPasswordReset`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-User-Notification-UserPasswordReset.html)
* [`Ibexa\Contracts\User\Notification\UserRegister`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-User-Notification-UserRegister.html)
* `Ibexa\Share\Notification\ContentEditInvitationNotification`
* `Ibexa\Share\Notification\ContentViewInvitationNotification`
* `Ibexa\Share\Notification\ExternalParticipantContentViewInvitationNotification`

> Available notification channels:

Author: ```suggestion
### Available notification channels
```

> ```bash
> php bin/console debug:container --tag=notifier.channel
> ```

Author: I should have introduce this command…

````suggestion
You can list the notification channel services with the following command:

```bash
php bin/console debug:container --tag=notifier.channel
```
````

* `email` - Notification forwarded to email addresses
* `ibexa` - Notification forwarded to back office user profiles
* [`push`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#push-channel) - Notification forwarded to specific applications
* [`sms`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#sms-channel) - Notification forwarded to phone numbers

Some default subscriptions can be found in `config/packages/ibexa.yaml` and `config/packages/ibexa_admin_ui.yaml`.
You can modify them or add your own subscriptions.
This page contains several examples of subscriptions configuration.

!!! caution "Scopes may not merge as expected"

    Subscriptions defined for a scope may not merge with subscriptions from other scopes or from other files.
    For example, `default` scope might not be merged within a siteaccess group scope.
    To ensure you don't unsubscribe against your will,
    always use the following command to check subscriptions for a siteaccess before and after additions:

    ```bash
    php bin/console ibexa:debug:config notifications.subscriptions --siteaccess=<siteaccess>
    ```

> ### Subscription example

Author: ```suggestion
### Subscriptions configuration

Some default subscriptions can be found in `config/packages/ibexa.yaml` and `config/packages/ibexa_admin_ui.yaml`.
You can modify them or add your own subscriptions.
This page contains several examples of subscriptions configuration.

!!! caution "Scopes may not merge as expected"

    Subscriptions defined for a scope may not merge with subscriptions from other scopes or from other files.
    For example, `default` scope might not be merged within a siteaccess group scope.
    To ensure you don't unsubscribe against your will,
    always use the following command to check subscriptions for a siteaccess before and after additions:

    ```bash
    php bin/console ibexa:debug:config notifications.subscriptions --siteaccess=<siteaccess>
    ```

#### Subscription example
```

---
description: Notify users through several channels.
month_change: true
---

# Notification channels

> The `ibexa/notifications` package offers an extension to the [Symfony notifier]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ibexa/notifications` package integrates the [Symfony Notifier]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html) with [[= product_name =]].
```
Notifier, as all Symfony components as using this casing (Console component etc.)

> It allows you to subscribe to notifications and forward them to various channels such as email, SMS, communication platforms,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use it to create notifications and send them through various channels such as email, SMS, communication platforms,
```

> and the [Back Office user notifications](notifications.md#create-custom-notifications).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the [back office user notifications](notifications.md#create-custom-notifications).
```

> These notifications must not be confused with the [notification bars](notifications.md#notification-bars) or the [user notifications](notifications.md#create-custom-notifications).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These notifications must not be confused with the [notification bars](notifications.md#notification-bars) or the [user notifications](notifications.md#create-custom-notifications):
```

> | Notification family                                                | Package               | Service                                                                                                                                                                 | Description                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Notification category                                               |  Create with                                                                                                                                                                 | Description                                                          |
```
I don't think package is important, the service should be enough? This gives you more space in the table.
And "Create with"/"Send with" to make it clearer what's the main purpose of the service

Author: Table reworked in 5154c1324fda0bbc47bebcaf35a7c381e40a5958

|--------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | [notification bars](notifications.md#notification-bars)            | `ibexa/admin-ui`      | [`TranslatableNotificationHandlerInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-AdminUi-Notification-TranslatableNotificationHandlerInterface.html) | Rendered as a message bar in the bottom-right corner.                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Notification bars](notifications.md#notification-bars)            | `ibexa/admin-ui`      | [`TranslatableNotificationHandlerInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-AdminUi-Notification-TranslatableNotificationHandlerInterface.html) | Rendered as a message bar in the bottom-right corner.                |
```

Author: Done in 5154c1324fda0bbc47bebcaf35a7c381e40a5958

> | [user notifications](notifications.md#create-custom-notifications) | `ibexa/core`          | [`NotificationService`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Core-Repository-NotificationService.html)                                                | Rendered as a message in the back office bell menu.                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [User notifications](notifications.md#create-custom-notifications) | `ibexa/core`          | [`NotificationService`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Core-Repository-NotificationService.html)                                                | Rendered as [back office notification](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/getting_started/notifications/)                  |
```
Using this opportunity to link to user doc, which shows how it looks (please use variable if you agree), and avoiding calling it `back office bell menu`

Author: Table reworked in 5154c1324fda0bbc47bebcaf35a7c381e40a5958

> | [Channel subscribable notification](#subscribe-to-notifications)   | `ibexa/notifications` | [`NotificationServiceInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Notifications-Service-NotificationServiceInterface.html)                        | Render depends on the channels subscribing to the notification type. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Channel-based notifications](#subscribe-to-notifications)   | `ibexa/notifications` | [`NotificationServiceInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Notifications-Service-NotificationServiceInterface.html)                        | Rendering depends on the channel assigned to the notification type. |
```

Author: Done in 7611cbe35cc07fb1ecc7276d7c99bb5f2fc5c9a9

These notifications don't have a predefined channel like the ones from the first two bundles.

> The channels you subscribe to notifications with determine how the user receives the information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike notification bars and user notifications, channel-based notifications don't have a predefined channel.
You can configure how they are delivered to the user by using YAML configuration.
```
Replacing "these", as it's not clear that it means "the last row in the table".

Several channels are provided, and you can create your own.

> The service implementing the [`Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Service\NotificationServiceInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Notifications-Service-NotificationServiceInterface.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Service\NotificationServiceInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Notifications-Service-NotificationServiceInterface.html)
```
To simplify it - people will inject the interface, we don't need to think about the service implementing it.

> sends notifications extending the `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Notification\Notification`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sends notifications, objects extending the `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Notification\Notification` class.
```

> Other services can have this notification service injected and send their own typed notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can inject this notification service into your code to send the built-in or custom notification types.
```
To avoid the passive voice.

Channel services implementing `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Channel\ChannelInterface` subscribe to a selection of notification types

> and take actions, such as conveying notifications to users through various transports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and deliver notifications to users through various transports.
```

## Subscribe to notifications

> Some events send notifications you can subscribe to with one or more channels.

Reviewer: Some events generate notifications that you can deliver to the users through one or more channels.

Author: ```suggestion
Some events generate notifications that you can deliver to the users through one or more channels.
```

> ### Available notifications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Available notification types
```

* [`Ibexa\Contracts\Shipping\Notification\ShipmentStatusChange`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Shipping-Notification-ShipmentStatusChange.html)
* [`Ibexa\Contracts\User\Notification\UserInvitation`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-User-Notification-UserInvitation.html)
* [`Ibexa\Contracts\User\Notification\UserPasswordReset`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-User-Notification-UserPasswordReset.html)
* [`Ibexa\Contracts\User\Notification\UserRegister`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-User-Notification-UserRegister.html)
* `Ibexa\Share\Notification\ContentEditInvitationNotification`
* `Ibexa\Share\Notification\ContentViewInvitationNotification`
* `Ibexa\Share\Notification\ExternalParticipantContentViewInvitationNotification`

### Available notification channels

You can list the notification channel services with the following command:

```bash
php bin/console debug:container --tag=notifier.channel
```

* `actito` - Notification forwarded as [transactional email](transactional_emails.md)

> * `browser` - Notification forwarded as flash message

Reviewer: Link to https://symfony.com/doc/7.4/session.html#flash-messages for consistency?

Author: I didn't do it because there is more example than definition there. But, you're right about consistency.

```suggestion
* `browser` - Notification forwarded as [flash message]([[= symfony_doc =]]/session.html#flash-messages)
```

* [`chat`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#chat-channel) - Notification forwarded to a communication platform like Slack, Microsoft Teams, or Google Chat

> * [`desktop`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#chat-channel) - Notification forwarded to desktop applications like JoliNotif

Reviewer: Link goes to chat-channel

Author: ```suggestion
* [`desktop`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#desktop-channel) - Notification forwarded to desktop applications like JoliNotif
```

> * `email` - Notification forwarded to email addresses

Reviewer: Add link to https://symfony.com/doc/7.4/notifier.html#email-channel , just for consistency?

Author: ```suggestion
* [`email`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#email-channel) - Notification forwarded to email addresses
```

> * `ibexa` - Notification forwarded to back office user profiles

Reviewer: > back office users as [user notification](...)

Author: I must rework https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/administration/back_office/notifications/ first…

Author: ```suggestion
* `ibexa` - Notification forwarded as [back office user notifications](notifications.md#user-notifications)
```

* [`push`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#push-channel) - Notification forwarded to specific applications
* [`sms`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#sms-channel) - Notification forwarded to phone numbers

### Subscriptions configuration

> Some default subscriptions can be found in `config/packages/ibexa.yaml` and `config/packages/ibexa_admin_ui.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the default configuration in `config/packages/ibexa.yaml` and `config/packages/ibexa_admin_ui.yaml`.
```

> You can modify them or add your own subscriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can modify it to define your own subscriptions.
```

This page contains several examples of subscriptions configuration.

!!! caution "Scopes may not merge as expected"

    Subscriptions defined for a scope may not merge with subscriptions from other scopes or from other files.
    For example, `default` scope might not be merged within a siteaccess group scope.
    To ensure you don't unsubscribe against your will,

>     always use the following command to check subscriptions for a siteaccess before and after additions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    always use the following command to check subscriptions for a siteaccess before and after any changes:
```

    ```bash
    php bin/console ibexa:debug:config notifications.subscriptions --siteaccess=<siteaccess>
    ```

#### Subscription example

> For example, let's subscribe to Commerce activity with a Slack channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how you can deliver notifications about Commerce-related activities through Slack:
```

> Install the Slack Notifier package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the Slack Notifier package:
```
Maybe numbered list, as it's a procedure?

```bash
composer require symfony/slack-notifier
```

> In a .env file, [set the DSN to target a Slack channel or a Slack user](https://github.com/symfony/slack-notifier?tab=readme-ov-file#dsn-example):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In a .env file, [set the DSN to target a Slack channel or a Slack user](https://github.com/symfony/slack-notifier?tab=readme-ov-file#dsn-example):
```

```dotenv
SLACK_DSN=slack://xoxb-token@default?channel=ibexa-notifications
```

> Subscribe to notification types related to Commerce, such as order, payment, and shipment status changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Subscribe to notification types related to Commerce, such as order, payment, and shipment status changes.
```

> For example, in a new `config/packages/notifications.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, define the following configuration in a new `config/packages/notifications.yaml` file:
```

``` yaml hl_lines="12-20"
[[= include_code('code_samples/user_management/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 1, 20) =]]

> ```

Reviewer: And maybe let's end with a summary of what the example did:
```suggestion
With these changes, the system will deliver Commerce-related notifications to the specified Slack channel.
```

Author: ````suggestion
```

With these changes, the system will deliver Commerce-related notifications to the specified Slack channel.
````

## Create a notification class

> A new notification class can be created to send a new type of message to a new set of channels.

Reviewer: Passive voice

```suggestion
You can define a new notification type and assign a new set of channels to it, customizing how it's delivered.
```

> It must extend `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Notification\Notification`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It must extend the `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Notification\Notification` class
```

and can optionally implement interfaces required by specific channels.

> - Some channels don't accept the notification if it doesn't implement their related notification interface. They have a checkmark in the ⚠ column below.

Reviewer: I don't think "⚠" works as a column name.

Maybe: 
`Notification interface` -> `Primary notification interface`
⚠ -> Accept other notification types (yes/no)

|:----------|:-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `actito`  | `EmailNotificationInterface`   | &#10004;                                                                              |
| `chat`    | `ChatNotificationInterface`    |                                                                                       |
| `desktop` | `DesktopNotificationInterface` |                                                                                       |
| `email`   | `EmailNotificationInterface`   | &#10004;                                                                              |
| `ibexa`   | `SystemNotificationInterface`  | &#10004;                                                                              |
| `push`    | `PushNotificationInterface`    |                                                                                       |
| `sms`     | `SmsNotificationInterface`     | &#10004;                                                                              |

> The [`SystemNotificationInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Notifications-SystemNotification-SystemNotificationInterface.html) is not part of Symfony and has its own namespace.

Reviewer: I'd just put that link in the table directly - and provide the full FQCN for the rest of the rows? It's quite narrow right now, hope it'll look ok.

Author: Done in 0e8e0668f5126b3e6c02568af1b848b25d3c733b

The `ibexa` channel sends notifications to users through their profile menu, exactly as [user notifications](notifications.md#create-custom-notifications).
The [`SystemNotificationChannel` uses the core `NotificationService`](https://github.com/ibexa/notifications/blob/v5.0.6/src/lib/SystemNotification/SystemNotificationChannel.php#L51) to do so.

Some channels don't need a recipient:

- `browser`: Always sends a flash message to the current user
- `chat`: Always sends a message to the same connection resource

### Notification sending

> In the [`Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/namespaces/ibexa-contracts-notifications.html) namespace can be found everything needed to work with notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the objects from the [`Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/namespaces/ibexa-contracts-notifications.html) namespace to work with notifications.
```

  used to wrap `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Recipient\RecipientInterface`.
     - This Symfony interface is implemented by [`…\Value\Recipent\UserRecipient`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Notifications-Value-Recipent-UserRecipient.html)
       which can wrap classes implementing the [`Ibexa\Contracts\Core\Repository\Values\User\UserReference` interface](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Core-Repository-Values-User-UserReference.html),
         - The [`UserService` methods to load a user](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Core-Repository-UserService.html#method_loadUser) are returning objects implementing this `UserReference` interface.
         - The [`PermissionResolver::getCurrentUserReference()` method](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Core-Repository-PermissionResolver.html#method_getCurrentUserReference) is returning objects implementing this `UserReference` interface.

For example, to send a notification, you often use a combination like the following:

```php hl_lines="8-11"

> use App\Notifications\MyNotification; // Extends Symfony\Component\Notifier\Notification\Notification

Reviewer: Until we have https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/pull/3166 , can you please extract it to a separate sample? And add `@var` annotation to $notificationService

Author: Done in fdf97b7b05b7e91062b69261769ca890a7a9af77

use Ibexa\Contracts\Core\Repository\PermissionResolver;
use Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Service\NotificationServiceInterface;
use Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Value\Notification\SymfonyNotificationAdapter;
use Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Value\Recipent\SymfonyRecipientAdapter;
use Ibexa\Contracts\Notifications\Value\Recipent\UserRecipient;
//…
$this->notificationService->send(
    new SymfonyNotificationAdapter(new MyNotification($subject)),
    [new SymfonyRecipientAdapter(new UserRecipient($this->permissionResolver->getCurrentUserReference()))],
);
//…
```

### `CommandExecuted` example

The following example is a command that sends a notification to users on several channels simultaneously.
This example could be a scheduled task or cron job that warns users about its result.

> First, a `CommandExecuted` notification type is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, create a `CommandExecuted` notification type.
```

> It's supported by two channels in this example but could be extended to more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It supports two channels (`ibexa`, `email`), but could be extended to support more.
```

As constructor arguments, an instance takes the command itself, the exit code of the run, and any caught exceptions.

``` php
[[= include_code('code_samples/user_management/notifications/src/Notifications/CommandExecuted.php') =]]
```

> The channels subscribing to this notification are set in `config/packages/notifications.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Assign channels subscribed to this notification in `config/packages/notifications.yaml`:
```

``` yaml hl_lines="17-20"
[[= include_code('code_samples/user_management/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 5, 24) =]]
```

> The example command sends a `CommandExecuted` notification at the end of what could be a regular execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a command sending a `CommandExecuted` notification at the end of execution:
```

It randomly succeeds or fails to demonstrate how notifications can communicate different execution results.
It could be declared as a service to set the list of recipients' logins (`$recipientLogins`) from a configuration file.

> ``` php

Reviewer: Highlight on the notification part?

```suggestion
``` php hl_lines="57-63"
```

[[= include_code('code_samples/user_management/notifications/src/Command/NotificationSenderCommand.php') =]]
```

> If you execute this command, it sometimes succeeds, sometimes fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you execute this command, it fails randomly and notifies the Administrator user about the result.
```

![Notification in back office](notification-browser-admin.png "Controller message displayed as a flash message in the browser")

Reaching the controller in the default SiteAccess on Commerce edition (at `/notification-sender`) also triggers the notification as a flash message in the bottom-right corner:

![Notification in storefront](notification-browser-storefront.png "Controller message displayed as a flash message in the browser")

## Create a custom channel

You may need to create new channels to subscribe to notifications and send them to new destinations.
For example, you could create a new channel for Slack that takes more than one DSN for finer dispatching.

A channel is a service implementing `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Channel\ChannelInterface`, and tagged `notifier.channel` alongside a `channel` identifier.

The following example is a custom channel that sends notifications to the logger.

``` php
[[= include_code('code_samples/user_management/notifications/src/Notifier/Channel/LogChannel.php') =]]
```

``` yaml
[[= include_code('code_samples/user_management/notifications/config/services.yaml') =]]
```

> Now, the [`CommandExecuted` notification](#commandexecuted-example) can be subscribed to with the `log` channel:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, the [`CommandExecuted` notification](#commandexecuted-example) can be subscribed to the `log` channel:
```

``` yaml hl_lines="5"
[[= include_code('code_samples/user_management/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 21, 25) =]]
```

The log contains the notifications

> (in `var/log/dev.log` in this example run in the `dev` Symfony environment):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(in `var/log/dev.log` when run in the `dev` Symfony environment):
```
